Women’s sexual prowess has always been downplayed.
It’s just like, “Women don’t want to fuck other
women.” And that’s not true. It’s just not true.
But there’s very little opportunities for these
things, unless you start going into communities
that involve cisgendered men, which you don’t
always want to, right? There’s not ever been
anything like the Pussy Palace. Nothing.
Felt like a space to...
be empowered differently, for lots of
different people. And also, to celebrate how good
we could be to each other and how much pleasure we
could make available to ourselves and each other.
And just... Even though, in my experience, it
wasn’t like... it didn’t feel necessarily any more
risqué than a nightclub sometimes, it did have a
purpose that felt much more driven by sexuality.
And that was kind of cool.
I definitely saw it wasan assertion of
queer women’s sexuality as valid,
as something that needed real space, places where
it could happen. I think everybody would have been
happy I’m sure for it to just go on without the
damn raid. But on the other hand, in a way that
also pushed some of the visibility of women’s
sexuality forward in Toronto. And also, then
what’s followed from that is trans identity has
also... It’s been able to ride that same journey,
in a way.
For the people that were wanting to break
from everyone else’s expectations of them,
it gave them a place to go do that. You could
go to a kink club, and you could get a little
bit of that. [laughing] You could go to a
bar and make out in the bathrooms pretty
aggressively. Like, you could... You could do all
these things. But this was a space specifically,
like, zoned for it, right? Which was awfully
empowering, and exciting, and a little naughty,
and all these things that we hadn’t
had, really,as a community.
I actually enjoyed the lead up
to the first bathhouse and the energy that
came with that. The bathhouse itself was
mind blowing in terms of how many people were
there, that we ran out of towels, that it was
so hot inside that the sprinkler system went off.
It felt historic when I was in it. When I left,
I was like, “Wow, this was really a big deal.”
I found the experience of being part of the
[Toronto Women’s] Bathhouse Committee, as well as
just having participated in the bathhouse through
its years, to be so transformative.
And I’m sothankful.
You know, it’s fond memories overall.
I mean obviously the raid was traumatic, but
everything else around it, you know,
was a great learningopportunity.
From the other committee members,from
the patrons for how I evolved as a human.
So, I’m grateful for having been a part of it.
And Ido think it’s also important
to not forget that
the crux of anti-queerness is about who people
desire, and how that intersects with social norms
at a particular moment in time. And so, desire is
another possible organizing principle that needs
to be celebrated, and again, protected. We need
to remind ourselves of that from time to time.
Obviously, what happened with the police was wrong
and wounding. That being said, it coalesced people
into more fierceness, made people more defiant,
more loyal to sexual space politics. There’s
people who came to know each other, become friends
and lovers because of the raid. It made love
happen between people, and so it was defining. The
politics around the Palace changed so much during
that period of time. It was deeper conversation,
it was more cognizant, especially of trans people
in the space. Yeah, that happened and now we have
new gifts, new opportunities to care for each
other and to speak to the most subtle things
that agents of the state do to control us.